#summary List of important issues of this project.

=Important issues of OGP project by development branch/baseline and stage of work on a specific branch=


==Main development trunk==

===A-stage (Initial development work)===
 * issue 1: Execution of JUnit tests from Ant build file. It is fixed by adding current working directory in junit tag. Consulted Apache's Ant official page for [http://ant.apache.org/manual/Tasks/junit.html junit tag] for help on this work.
 * issue 2: Implemented new type of construction - construction of second angle ray for given first ray and congruent angle.
 * issue 4: New types of constructions added to the project.
 * issue 5: Adding several examples for simple Wu's method.
 * issue 6: Project cleanup - removing unnecessary files and folders.
 * issue 7: Execution of OGP help from command line.
 * ...

===CON-stage (Support for conic sections)===
 * issue 3: Implementation of basic support for parametric sets.

 * ...

===Stage free issues===
 * ...


==Integration of OGP with !GeoGebra==

===A-stage (Initial development work)===
 * issue 8: Review of project's licenses.
 * issue 9: New branch creation for integration with !GeoGebra.
 * issue 10: Implementation of XML parser for geometry constructions.
 * issue 11: Changes in OGP constructions in development trunk and new branch.
 * issue 12: Replacement of log4j logger by !GeoGebra's logger.
 * issue 13: Implementation of converter for geometry theorem statements.
 * ...

===Stage free issues===
 * ...