#summary This page contains details about implementation of integration of OGP to GeoGebra

=Integration of OGP with !GeoGebra=

This development is done in Java 1.5.0_22 version of Java SDK.

==Stages in development work on branch dedicated for integration of OGP to !GeoGebra==

Following table outlines main stages of development work.

|| *Stage or sub-stage of work* || *Work Description* || *Work Status* || *Comment* ||
|| *A* || _Initial development work_ || Ongoing || ||
|| *A.1* || _Preparations for main work_ || Ongoing || Making decisions about implementation ||
|| *A.2* || _Improvements on main development trunk <br>required for integration of OGP with !GeoGebra_ || Ongoing || ||
|| *A.3* || _XML parsing of geometry constructions_ || Ongoing || ||
|| *A.4* || _Parsing of theorem statements_ || Ongoing || ||
|| *A.5* || _Replacement of logger_ || *Finished* || ||
|| *A.6* || _Implementation of output format_ || Not Yet Started || ||
|| *A.7* || _Preparing documentation and examples_ || Ongoing || ||
|| *A.8* || _Testing and bug fixing_ || Ongoing || ||
|| ... || ... || ... || ||
|| || || || ||
|| *B* || _Further development work_ || Not Yet Started|| TBD - will be split in new stages ||
|| ... || ... || ... || ||

The details about each specific stage of work:

 # *A-stage* is initial work which should provide basic OGP proving features available in !GeoGebra software.
  * *A.1* - Preparations for main work are discussions and work about: 
   * desired functionality
   * how arguments and results will be transferred between OGP and !GeoGebra
   * adjustments of OGP license to match !GeoGebra's 
   * removing of 3rd party libraries that can't be used in !GeoGebra (in order to keep its {{{'.jar'}}} file as small as possible)
   * ...
  * *A.2* - Sometimes it will be necessary to implement some new feature or functionality on this branch which is generally useful so it basically has to be implemented on main development trunk first. This sub-stage is also for fixing bugs on main development trunk found during work on !GeoGebra branch of OGP.
  * *A.3* - XML parsing of geometry constructions:
   * agreed format of XML that will be sent from !GeoGebra to OGP
   * using QDParser for parsing XML for constructions
   * adding support for various geometry constructions from !GeoGebra even if they are currently not supported by OGP (which is currently oriented to algebraic provers), like rays, segments, polygons etc.
  * *A.4* - Parsing theorem statements:
   * agreed about format of most important geometry theorem statements
  * *A.5* - Replacement of 3rd party [http://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/ log4j] logger with new one used in !GeoGebra.
  * *A.6* - Implementation of output format:
   * what will be sent from OGP to !GeoGebra and in what type of format
 # *B-stage* - Further development work - To Be Decided

*Note:*
 Every project issue created to track a single specific piece of work has to have a mark of at least stage of work it is related to, but better if more detailed sub-stage label is provided. For more information about issues of this project visit [important_issues Issues] page.