#summary This page contains all Wiki topics related to OpenGeoProver project.


=OGP Project development and maintenance=
===[development_plans Development Plans]===
What is currently done on the project? What baselines exist? What are plans for future work?

===[local_project_development Local Project Development]===
How to checkout, develop and maintain the project on your local machine? How to check in new code changes on repository trunks? Description of workflow for project changes.

===[coding_standards Coding Standards for this project]===
Coding standards that each developer should follow when making changes in this project.

===[important_issues Important issues]===
List of all relevant issues created for this project.

===[development_solutions Development Solutions]===
Explanation of various development solutions (algorithms, design) applied in this project.

===[development_discussions Development discussions]===
Discussions among developers about various development related questions.

===[todo_wiki TODO Wiki pages]===
List of topics currently not covered by Wiki pages but that should be presented in details in future. 


=Mathematical Background=
===[geo_notes Geometry Notes]===
Various geometry related topics and questions.

===[agtp_main About Automated Geometry Theorem Provers]===
A brief description of filed of Automated Geometry Theorems Proving.

===[wu_method Wu's method]===
A brief description of simple and complete Wu's methods for automated geometry theorem proving.

===[groebner_basis_method Gröbner basis method]===
A brief description of Gröbner basis method for automated geometry theorem proving.



=General Development Topics=
===[oop_design Object Oriented Development and Design]===
Various interesting topics related to OOP development and design especially in Java.

===[java5_notes Java 5 notes]===
Notes about Java 5 development relevant to this project.

===[ant_notes Ant notes]===
Various Ant topics.

===[eclipse_notes Eclipse notes]===
Topics related to work in Eclipse IDE.